---
title: "Life Cycle Assessment of Scaled-up Pyrite-based Solid-state Batteries for Energy Storage Applications."
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-06-02-j12/
excerpt: ''
date: 2025-06-02
venue: 'Journal of Cleaner Production'
#slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2025.145861'
#bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
citation: 'Hossain, M. R., Han, M., & Li, L. (2025). Life Cycle Assessment of Scaled-up Pyrite-based Solid-state Batteries for Energy Storage Applications. Journal of Cleaner Production, 145861.'
---
The growing demand for sustainable and safer energy storage solutions has driven increased interest in emerging battery technologies. While liquid-based lithium-ion batteries are widely adopted, concerns over safety, environmental impact, and the scarcity of critical raw materials have prompted a shift toward solid-state alternatives. With higher energy density, greater inherent stability, and improved sustainability, solid-state batteries present a compelling alternative. However, quantitative assessments of their environmental impacts across different life cycle phases remain limited. Existing studies focus on transportation applications using lab-scale production data, leaving the life cycle impacts of solid-state batteries for large-scale energy storage underexplored. This study conducts a life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental performance of pyrite-based solid-state batteries with scaled-up production for energy storage applications, considering cradle-to-gate and cradle-to-use phases. Key environmental impact indicators, including global warming potential, ecotoxicity, smoke and fog, and crustal scarcity indicator, are analyzed across five scenarios incorporating different battery performance metrics. Additionally, a sustainable and lower-impact development path is proposed by linking environmental performance with battery use-phase parameters across various application scales, from general-purpose storage to grid-level systems. Results indicate that under the U.S. energy mix, the global warming potential can be reduced by 35%, while overall environmental impacts across the selected categories can be lowered by 50% through optimized energy sourcing, improved battery chemistry, and strategic usage patterns.